Science has done wonders in present-day civilization. It has made human life easy and comfortable In ancient days the man had to depend solely on the mercy of nature and in then society manpower was the only source for doing any laborious work. As time passed, man invented new appliances and applied new techniques to do things in every walk of life. Man has now entered the atomic era. Today he has been able to penetrate many of the mysteries of space. In some countries of the West, science has developed human society to an unimaginable extent. We cannot manufacture today even a small needle without having recourse to science. It saves both labor and time. Railways, trams, buses, ships, and airplanes have made journeys easier and quicker. Again, radios, wireless, telephones, fax, television, computer help the spread of knowledge in no time. Science has worked miracles in the branch of medicine, though its task is not yet complete. However, the achievements of science are not an unmixed blessing. As it has rid mankind of many evils, it has also created new problems and posed fresh dangers for man. Nowadays the great powers of the world always take pride in their achievements in the development of atomic weapons and threaten the world with unprecedented dangers. World peace is at stake. Unless scientific inventions are widely used for the benefit of mankind and civilization with a mission of peace and progress, they will eventually destroy the civilization that has been built up over such a long time and with such hard work. The devastations caused by the atomic bombs dropped on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki towards the end of the Second World War make us shudder at the destructive power of science when misused by power-loving politicians.
There are similarities between a family and a society. In a family, parents look after their children that is their day-to-day and future well-being. If every member in a family looks after his own interests alone there can be no peace and nothing will get done. For example, when boarding a train or a bus, we must rule and maintain order and discipline so that nobody can complain against another person. If we allow first the passengers to get down. If we try to force our way in and those who want to get down try to honor others’ rights, others will be compelled to honor our own. Give and take, live and let live- these are the rules of decent survival in this world.
No one needs to exaggerate the value of blood as a life-saving element. People suffering from diseases like leukemia and chronic anemia need a regular blood transfusion for their survival. Also, people who have lost much blood because of bleeding from wounds and injuries sustained in accidents and other violent deeds need blood to make good the lost blood. For all these emergency requirements the blood banks at government hospitals require a stock of blood from which people requiring blood may get it immediately at the critical moment. Needless to say, the healthy citizens of the country can keep these blood banks well-stocked all the time by donating blood from time to time. There may be a fear among people that regular donation of one’s blood may harm the health of the donor. But this fear is unfounded in fact; physicians assure us that the amount of blood donated is soon replenished and the donation does not have any harmful effect on the physical condition of the donor. One has only to keep in mind that such donation of blood which has no ill-effect on the donor himself may save a precious life when it is hanging precariously needing the precious fluid. Social organizations, political parties, and other philanthropic bodies organize blood donation camps. If such organizations are genuinely interested in meeting a valuable social need, every right-thinking citizen should come forward and donate his blood, keeping in mind that his blood may save a precious life.
Modern life cannot be imagined without newspapers. A newspaper is a regular source of the important news of home and abroad. It represents the current and living history of the world. Newspapers are of various kinds dailies, weeklies, bi-weeklies, monthlies, etc. The main function of a daily paper is to publish news of general interest while the others mostly contain literary pieces and articles on important topics. Nowadays every newspaper has some special sections dealing with politics, everyday problems, off-beat news, business, sports, editorial page, feature pages, etc. So, the newspaper is one of the most powerful organs of dissemination of news and views among the public. It plays a very important role in educating the people and guiding them along the right path. If it wants to it can fight social evil successfully. It makes us aware of national and international problems. A newspaper can also do us much harm. Used wrongly it can create hatred and enmity between man and man, section and section, nation and nation. Sometimes it publishes baseless reports or stories to create deliberately confusion in the minds of the gullible people. A newspaper is as powerful as any potent weapon. It can be used for both good and evil. Much depends on the outlook and motive of the people who are at the helm of the paper.
The phrase “Capital Punishment’ means a death sentence awarded by a court of law to someone found also on those who were found guilty of treason, serious robbery, rape, etc. Many people would support guilty of some heinous crime like murder deliberately committed. In the past, such sentence was passed capital punishment on the ground that a person who can destroy another person’s life or ruin a woman’s life by raping her is unfit to remain alive, and capital punishment is what he deserves. Besides, capital punishment also acts as a deterrent to others, who, without the fear of such extreme punishment, may commit heinous and inhuman crimes. But there are also people who think that a “tooth for a tooth and an eye for an eye policy represented by capital punishment should not be followed by the state. A criminal, destroyer of human lives, however ignominious those lives may prove to be by their cruel actions. In because of his distorted and warped mentality, may commit homicide, but a state should not act as in many countries capital punishment is on its way out. Life imprisonment, incarceration in penitentiaries, and, when necessary, psychological treatment of those guilty of violent and inhuman crimes are recommended as substitutes for capital punishment.